The first version of this package was debianized by Cheng H. Lee
<cheng.h.lee@gmail.com> on Wed, 06 May 2020 01:44:54 -0500.

The current version was downloaded from https://github.com/SDL-Hercules-390/hyperion.

Upstream Authors:

       Hercules was created by Roger Bowler and is maintained by Jay
       Maynard.  Jan Jaeger designed and implemented many of the
       advanced features of Hercules, including dynamic
       reconfiguration, integrated console, interpretive execution,
       and z/Architecture support.

Copyright:
    Copyright 1991-2014 Roger Bowler
    Copyright 1995-2005 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
    Copyright 1999 Volker Bandke
    Copyright 1999-2001 Nobody
    Copyright 1999-2009 Peter Kuschnerus
    Copyright 1999-2013 Jan Jaeger
    Copyright 2000-2009 Leland Lucius
    Copyright 2000-2007 Malcolm Beattie
    Copyright 2000-2009 Willem Konynenberg
    Copyright 2000-2009 Bernard van der Helm
    Copyright 2001-2009 Fritz Elfert
    Copyright 2001-2010 James M. Morrison
    Copyright 2001-2009 Vic Cross
    Copyright 2002-2014 David B.Trout
    Copyright 2002-2010 Greg Smith
    Copyright 2002-2012 James A. Pierson
    Copyright 2003-2006 Mark L. Gaubatz
    Copyright 2003-2009 Ivan Warren
    Copyright 2000-2007 Jay Maynard
    Copyright 2010 TurboHercules, SAS
    Copyright 2012 Enrico Sorichetti
    Copyright 2014 Peter J. Jansen
    Copyright 2016-2018 Stephen R. Orso
    "and others"

Licensing:
    All materials in this distribution are
    copyrighted by Roger Bowler and others.

    Hercules may be distributed under the terms
    of the Q Public License Version 1.0

    Please refer to:
    http://www.hercules-390.org/herclic.html
    for details.

    In the context of this license, the initial developers of
    the software are Roger Bowler, Jan Jaeger, and Jay Maynard.

(A copy of the Q Public License 1.0 from the referenced web page is appended to
this file. It is the same as the original Trolltech version available from
opensource.org, except that the Choice of Law at the end has been changed
to England.)

Copyright on differently-licensed parts:

crypto/sha2.c, crypto.sha2.h:
    Copyright (c) 2000-2001, Aaron D. Gifford
    All rights reserved.

    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
    are met:
    1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
       documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of contributors
       may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
       without specific prior written permission.

    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTOR(S) ``AS IS'' AND
    ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
    IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
    ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTOR(S) BE LIABLE
    FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
    DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
    OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
    HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
    LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
    OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
    SUCH DAMAGE.

crypto/des.c:
    PuTTY is copyright 1997-2005 Simon Tatham.
    Portions copyright Robert de Bath, Joris van Rantwijk, Delian
    Delchev, Andreas Schultz, Jeroen Massar, Wez Furlong, Nicolas Barry,
    Justin Bradford, Ben Harris, Malcolm Smith, Ahmad Khalifa, Markus
    Kuhn, and CORE SDI S.A.

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
    obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files
    (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction,
    including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge,
    publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software,
    and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
    subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
    included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
    EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
    NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE
    FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF
    CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
    WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

hercules.m4:
    Modeled after 'AC_C99_FLEXIBLE_ARRAY' macro copyright
    by Erik de Castro Lopo <erikd AT mega-nerd DOT com>

    Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this file
    for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the
    above copyright and this permission notice appear in all copies.
    No representations are made about the suitability of this software
    for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or
    implied warranty.

decNumber/*:
    Copyright (c) 1995-2005 International Business Machines Corporation and
    others. All rights reserved.

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
    copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
    "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
    without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
    distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
    to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
    copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
    the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
    permission notice appear in supporting documentation.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
    OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
    OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
    HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
    INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
    FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
    NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
    WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

    Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
    shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
    or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
    of the copyright holder.

getopt.c:
 * Copyright (c) 1987, 1993, 1994, 1996
 *  The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
 *    must display the following acknowledgement:
 *  This product includes software developed by the University of
 *  California, Berkeley and its contributors.
 * 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
 *    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
 *    without specific prior written permission.
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
 * ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
 * ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
 * FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
 * DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
 * OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
 * LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
 * OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
 * SUCH DAMAGE.

getopt.h:
 * Copyright (c) 2000 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
 * All rights reserved.
 *
 * This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation
 * by Dieter Baron and Thomas Klausner.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
 *    must display the following acknowledgement:
 *        This product includes software developed by the NetBSD
 *        Foundation, Inc. and its contributors.
 * 4. Neither the name of The NetBSD Foundation nor the names of its
 *    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
 *    from this software without specific prior written permission.
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
 * ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
 * TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
 * PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR CONTRIBUTORS
 * BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
 * CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
 * SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
 * INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
 * CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
 * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
 * POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

parts of hscutl.[ch]:
 * Copyright (c) 1998 Todd C. Miller <Todd.Miller@courtesan.com>
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
 * purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
 * copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
 *
 * THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
 * WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
 * MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
 * ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
 * WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
 * ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
 * OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

tt32api.h
  Copyright (c) Software Development Laboratories, aka "Fish" (David B. Trout)

  Licensed under terms of the ZLIB/LIBPNG Open Source Software License
  http://www.opensource.org/licenses/zlib-license.php

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS-IS', WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY.
  IN NO EVENT WILL THE AUTHOR(S) BE HELD LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES ARISING FROM
  THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

  Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including
  commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to
  the following restrictions:

   1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim
      that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product,
      an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but is
      not required.

   2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
      misrepresented as being the original software.

   3. This notice nor the above Copyright information may not be removed or altered
      from any source distribution.

util/awssl-v19g:
    * Copyright (C) 2002, By Reed H. Petty, rhp@draper.net                *
    *                                                                     *
    * You are free to make any changes you like to this code for any      *
    * purpose (including commercial for profit use) PROVIDED that you     *
    * carry the credits forward into derived works.                       *
    *                                                                     *
    * NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND IS MADE!  USE AT YOUR OWN RISK!             *

part of w32util.c:
    Copyright 2000 Petter Reinholdtsen
    (with the same copyright/permission notice as crypto/des.c)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

THE Q PUBLIC LICENSE version 1.0

Copyright (C) 1999 Trolltech AS, Norway.
Everyone is permitted to copy and
distribute this license document.

The intent of this license is to establish freedom to share and change the
software regulated by this license under the open source model.

This license applies to any software containing a notice placed by the
copyright holder saying that it may be distributed under the terms of the Q
Public License version 1.0. Such software is herein referred to as the
Software. This license covers modification and distribution of the Software,
use of third-party application programs based on the Software, and development
of free software which uses the Software.

                                Granted Rights

1. You are granted the non-exclusive rights set forth in this license provided
you agree to and comply with any and all conditions in this license. Whole or
partial distribution of the Software, or software items that link with the
Software, in any form signifies acceptance of this license.

2. You may copy and distribute the Software in unmodified form provided that
the entire package, including - but not restricted to - copyright, trademark
notices and disclaimers, as released by the initial developer of the Software,
is distributed.

3. You may make modifications to the Software and distribute your
modifications, in a form that is separate from the Software, such as patches.
The following restrictions apply to modifications:

    a. Modifications must not alter or remove any copyright notices in the
    Software.

    b. When modifications to the Software are released under this license, a
    non-exclusive royalty-free right is granted to the initial developer of the
    Software to distribute your modification in future versions of the Software
    provided such versions remain available under these terms in addition to
    any other license(s) of the initial developer.

4. You may distribute machine-executable forms of the Software or
machine-executable forms of modified versions of the Software, provided that
you meet these restrictions:

    a. You must include this license document in the distribution.

    b. You must ensure that all recipients of the machine-executable forms are
    also able to receive the complete machine-readable source code to the
    distributed Software, including all modifications, without any charge
    beyond the costs of data transfer, and place prominent notices in the
    distribution explaining this.

    c. You must ensure that all modifications included in the
    machine-executable forms are available under the terms of this license.

5. You may use the original or modified versions of the Software to compile,
link and run application programs legally developed by you or by others.

6. You may develop application programs, reusable components and other software
items that link with the original or modified versions of the Software. These
items, when distributed, are subject to the following requirements:

    a. You must ensure that all recipients of machine-executable forms of these
    items are also able to receive and use the complete machine-readable source
    code to the items without any charge beyond the costs of data transfer.

    b. You must explicitly license all recipients of your items to use and
    re-distribute original and modified versions of the items in both
    machine-executable and source code forms. The recipients must be able to do
    so without any charges whatsoever, and they must be able to re-distribute
    to anyone they choose.

    c. If the items are not available to the general public, and the initial
    developer of the Software requests a copy of the items, then you must
    supply one.

                           Limitations of Liability

In no event shall the initial developers or copyright holders be liable for any
damages whatsoever, including - but not restricted to - lost revenue or profits
or other direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages, even
if they have been advised of the possibility of such damages, except to the
extent invariable law, if any, provides otherwise.

                                  No Warranty

The Software and this license document are provided AS IS with NO WARRANTY OF
ANY KIND, INCLUDING THE WARRANTY OF DESIGN, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

                                 Choice of Law

This license is governed by the Laws of England.
